Configuring Bridge and Bonding Devices

Bridge and Bond means to take 2 or more network interfaces and "glue" them together under the same operating system,
this creates a virtual network device. In one case its called a bridge and the other case its called a bond.

How are they different if they both do the same thing on the surface?
The clues are in the words bridge and bond themselves

When I am bridging 2 network devices, I am doing EXACTLY what the word implies.
I am building a bridge between network 1 and network 2
Such a bridge would allow computers on two separate network to talk to each other as if they are part of the same network.

Any network device is called a network interface in Linux.

A simple bridge diagram analogy

Real Life:  LAND <-----> WATER <-----> LAND
Linux:      NETWORK1 <----> BRIDGE <----> NETWORK2

In Linux networking terms, the bridge is called the "controller", and the network devices that are part of the bridge are 
called ports.


Bonding

I can take 2 or more network devices and "bond" them together, depending on the "bond type".

Here are 3 examples on this:

1. It can make the connection to a network more resilient and able to keep working by providing redundancy.
Even if a network card goes down or gets disconnected.

2. It can increase network throughput. For example, if one network card supports a 1000 MB connection, two cards can 
be combined to reach much higher speeds. It wouldn't get exactly 2000 MBs but it'll be much higher than a single card
supports.

3. It can make the connection more reliable, for example, a single network device might experience a few slowdowns, but 
if I were to bond three network devices, I might be able to eliminate those slowdowns and increase stability. 

Bonding modes
Linux typically support 7 bonding modes
Mode 0 to 6
If no mode is specified, usually linux would have mode 0 selected by default aka "round robin"

Mode 4 is one mode that can increase network throughput above what a single card can achieve.

Mode 0 - Round Robin
Mode 1 - Active-Backup
Mode 2 - XOR
Mode 3 - Broadcast
Mode 4 - IEEE 802.3ad
Mode 5 - Adaptive Transmit Load Balancing
Mode 6 - Adaptive Load Balancing



Mode 0 - Round Robin uses network interfaces in a sequential order for a certain amount of data
Mode 1 - Active Backup uses a single interface, and keeps all others inactive as backups
Mode 2 - XOR picks the interface to use based on the source and destination of the data packet. This ensures that if
device one wants to reach device two through its bond, it will always go through the same interface.

Mode 3 - Broadcast means that all data is sent through all network interfaces at once.
Mode 4 - IEEE 802.3ad can help increase network transfer rates above what a single interface supports
Mode 5 - Adaptive Transmit Load Balancing balances load balances outgoing traffic from the bond. That is, it will try to send 
data from the interface that's the least "busy".
Mode 6 - Adaptive Load Balancing tries to load balance both outgoing and incoming traffic.

In the context of a bond, all network interfaces that are added to it are called "ports".

Bridge - Two or more networks
Bond - Two or more connections to a network.



