To discover almost everything about the system network configuration:
ip link

To see the ip address on the interfaces:
ip a

You can use the -c (color) option to highlight the imporant parts of the STDOUT
ip -c a

When a network interface is down. You can bring it up using the following command:

sudo ip link set dev < network interface name> up

To manually add an ipv4 ip address to a network interface:
sudo ip addr add <ipv4 address/CIDR notation> dev <network interface name>

To manually add an ipv6 ip address to a network interface:
sudo ip addr add <ipv6 address/CIDR notation> dev <netowrk interface name>

Note that a network interface can have multiple ip addresses.

To remove an ip address from a network interface:
sudo ip addr delete <ipv4 or 6 address/CIDR notation> dev <network interface name>
sudo ip link set dev <network interface name> down


Changes using the ip command are temporary. Changes are lost upon reboot
So the ip command is usually used to test ip settings temporarily

How to make the changes permanent.
It depends on the OS. Each linux may do something different. In the past, default networking
tools have been change alot.

What Ubuntu uses currently is called "netplan"

This is a setup utility that reads some config files then sends instructions to other networking 
tools, telling them to configure netowrk settings accordingly. 
On Ubuntu server, netplan sends instructions to the systemd network daemon called 
systemd-network.d.

To see the current netplan configuration:
sudo netplan get

dhcp4 = true means that it is making this device ask for network settings from a dhcp4 server.
the 4 refers to ipv4 settings.

A DHCP server is often used to auto configure IPs for the devices on a network.


Netplan config files are stored in the /etc/netplan directory.
When creating a netplan file, its common practice to prefix it with a number like so:
99-mynetworkfile.yaml

After making changes to the .yaml config file, you can test if what you did is correct by running the following command:
sudo netplan try 


A count down will start for 2 minutes, if you press enter, the changes will be accepted, otherwise
the countdown will revert the changes after 2 minutes.
If you want the count down to be shorter you can pass the timeout flag:
sudo netplan try --timeout 30 (seconds)


If you want to straight up apply these settings, run the following command:
sudo netplan apply


After you are finished, run chmod 600 on the config file to satisfy the warning after 
the changes are implemented.


So now if the server is rebooted, the settings will be applied automatically.

